---
layout: post
title: Tips & Trivia in UIKit
tags: [Swift, UIKit]
---

This blog will mainly cover some iOS development details during my build of [Meme2.0](https://github.com/Juntian-T/Udacity_Projects/tree/master/Meme2.0) App.
 
---

First off, it's the `UICollectionView`. `UICollectionView` is very similar to `UITableView`, the most important three methods are `numberOfItemsInSection()`, `cellForItemAtIndexPath()`, and `didSelectItemAtIndexPath()`. Rather than `Row`, as the tableView uses, CollectionView uses `Item` instead. But their responsiblites are basically the same.

Another important thing to note is that you have to defiine a custom cell for each collection view, more than one type if necessary. A new file is needed when defining a custom cell, and don't forget to add outlets to the corresponding labels or images in storyboard.

`UICollectionViewFlowLayout` is used to organize the items in a collection view. There are three properties needs to be defined: `minimumLineSpacing`, `minimumInteritemSpacing` , and `itemSize`. Some useful [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/WindowsViews/Conceptual/CollectionViewPGforIOS/UsingtheFlowLayout/UsingtheFlowLayout.html).

---

Often, view contollers are embedded in `Navigation Controller`, where all view controllers will have a nav bar at the top. If we want to add items (like buttons) to the nav bar, the one we need is `Bar Button Item` rather than `Navigation Item`.

In `Navigation Controller`, when a view controller is pushed on to the view stack, it will slide from right to left. In the nav bar at the top, there will be a back button, which, when pressed, will automatically pop off the current view controller.

---

When adding data to table view or collection view dynamically, remember to call `tableView.reloadData()` or `collectionView.reloadData()`  in the `viewWillAppear()` function. So when coming back from another view controller after manipulating data, the table view or collection view will also get an update.

---

In table views, the style of seperator between cells can be set in storyboard. You can have `none` rather than the ugly grey line.